# ORS 411.845 - Prosecution; costs; accounting

**Source**: https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/ors/ors411.html

**Downloaded**: 1762030591.979833

---

(1)If any person obtains, gives, sells, trades or otherwise disposes of any supplemental nutrition assistance in violation of ORS 411.840 (Unlawfully obtaining or disposing of supplemental nutrition assistance), the district attorney shall prosecute, for and in the name of the State of Oregon, a civil action or suit to recover from such person the amount of the supplemental nutrition assistance obtained, given, sold, traded or otherwise disposed of by such person.

(2)In any suit or action prosecuted under subsection (1) of this section, the state is entitled to recover interest and its costs and disbursements incurred in such suit or action.

(3)Moneys recovered by the state under this section shall be accounted for or paid to the federal and state governments, as their respective interests therein may appear. [1963 c.599 §17; 1997 c.581 §16; 2009 c.599 §8]

Note: Sections 6 and 7, chapter 538, Oregon Laws 2023, provide:

Sec. 6. (1) No later than 90 days after the effective date of this 2023 Act [September 24, 2023], the Department of Human Services shall submit to the United States Department of Agriculture a request for approval to waive the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 2014(d)(18) in order to exclude quarterly distributions of an advance payment of the tax credit allowed under section 2 of this 2023 Act [315.273 (Qualifying child of taxpayer)] from consideration in determining eligibility for supplemental nutrition assistance.

(2)The department shall report the status of the request to the Legislative Assembly no later than September 15, 2024, and annually thereafter until September 15 following the date that the United States Department of Agriculture approves or denies the request for waiver. [2023 c.538 §6]

Sec. 7. Section 6 of this 2023 Act is repealed on January 1, 2029. [2023 c.538 §7]