# ORS 458.530 - Policy on Hunger

**Source**: https://oregon.public.law/statutes/ors_458.530

**Downloaded**: 2025-01-26

---

## (1)

The Department of Human Services shall serve as the lead public body in administering the state policy on hunger.

## (2)

The Legislative Assembly finds and declares that it is the policy of this state that:

### (a)

Hunger is defined as the state of being unable to obtain a nutritionally adequate diet from nonemergency food channels. Hunger is not one discrete event. Hunger is a series of events that lead up to and follow a lack of adequate food intake. It is the process in which people become at risk of hunger, attempt to cope with the problem and suffer a variety of health and social consequences.

### (b)

All persons have the right to be free from hunger.

### (c)

Freedom from hunger means all persons have food security. Persons lack food security if they are uncertain of having, or being able to acquire in socially acceptable ways, enough acceptable food at all times to meet basic needs because they have insufficient money or other resources for food.

### (d)

Oregon will strive to rank among the top states in the nation in providing food security without hunger.

## (3)

The Legislative Assembly declares that the policy of this state is to provide and encourage activities and programs necessary to fulfill the commitment stated in subsection (2) of this section and that the purpose of policies stated in this section is to provide a guide for the establishment, implementation and operation of activities and programs designed to alleviate or eradicate hunger in this state. The Legislative Assembly further declares that the activities and programs shall be initiated, promoted and developed through:

### (a)

Volunteers and volunteer groups;

### (b)

Public and private not-for-profit organizations;

### (c)

Partnership with local governmental agencies;

### (d)

Coordinated efforts of state agencies;

### (e)

Coordination and cooperation with federal programs;

### (f)

Partnership with private health and social service agencies; **and**

### (g)

The Hunger Task Force.

---

**Note**: ORS 458.530 (Policy on hunger), ORS 458.532 (Hunger Task Force) and ORS 458.545 (Task force powers and duties) were added to and made a part of ORS chapter 411 by legislative action but were not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 458 or any series therein. See Preface to Oregon Revised Statutes for further explanation.
