# ORS 413.500 - Women, Infants and Children Program; rules; civil penalties

**Source**: https://www.oregonlegislature.gov/bills_laws/ors/ors413.html

**Downloaded**: 1762030574.2704563

---

(1)The Women, Infants and Children Program is established in the Oregon Health Authority. The purpose of the program is to serve as an adjunct to health care by providing nutritious food, nutrition education and counseling, health screening and referral services to pregnant and breast-feeding women and to infants and children in certain high-risk categories.

(2)The authority shall adopt:

(a)Standards and procedures to guide administration of the program by the state in conformity with federal requirements and to define the rights, responsibilities and legal procedures of program vendors; and

(b)Rules necessary to implement and carry out the provisions of this section.

(3)

(a)In addition to any other penalty provided by law, the authority may assess a civil penalty against any person for violation of any rule of the authority relating to the Women, Infants and Children Program. The authority shall adopt by rule criteria for the amount of civil penalties to be assessed under this section.

(b)All penalties recovered under this section shall be deposited into the Oregon Health Authority Fund and credited to an account designated by the authority. Moneys deposited are appropriated continuously to the authority and shall be used only for the administration and enforcement of this section. [Formerly 409.600]

Note: 413.500 (Women, Infants and Children Program) was enacted into law by the Legislative Assembly but was not added to or made a part of ORS chapter 413 or any series therein by legislative action. See Preface to Oregon Revised Statutes for further explanation.